docs: Add a new guide for result storages (#587)
apify/crawlee-python: docs/guides/result_storage.mdx

---
id: result-storage
title: Result storage

> description: How to store and retrieve data with KeyValueStore and Dataset in Crawlee

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to store and retrieve data with key-value store and dataset in Crawlee.
```

---

import ApiLink from '@site/src/components/ApiLink';

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';

> import DatasetBasicExample from '!!raw-loader!./code/result_storage_dataset_basic.py';
> 
> import KvStoreBasicExample from '!!raw-loader!./code/result_storage_kvstore_basic.py';
> 
> import RsPurgeExplicitlyExample from '!!raw-loader!./code/result_storage_purge_explicitly.py';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import DatasetBasicExample from '!!raw-loader!./code/result_storage_dataset_basic.py';
import KvsBasicExample from '!!raw-loader!./code/result_storage_kvs_basic.py';
import RsPurgeExplicitlyExample from '!!raw-loader!./code/result_storage_purge_explicitly.py';
```

This guide explains the available result storage options in Crawlee and how to use them to store and retrieve data.

## Result storage overview

Crawlee offers various types of result storage, each tailored for specific tasks. By default, data is saved to a local disk in the directory specified by the `CRAWLEE_STORAGE_DIR` environment variable. If this variable is not set, Crawlee will automatically use `./storage` within the current working directory.

> The `MemoryStorage` class manages Crawlee's storage. Throughout the crawler's execution, all data is held in memory, and it is simultaneously written to local files within their respective storage type folders.

Reviewer: Missing API docs link (all classes should be linked to the API docs).

## KeyValueStore

The key-value store serves the purpose of saving and retrieving data records or files. Each data record is identified by a unique key and linked to a specific MIME content type. Key-value stores are particularly suited for storing web page screenshots, PDFs, or for maintaining the state of crawlers.

Every Crawlee project run is tied to a default key-value store. By convention, the project’s input and output are saved in this default key-value store under the keys `INPUT` and `OUTPUT`, respectively. Typically, both input and output are in JSON format, though other formats are also acceptable.

> In Crawlee, the key-value store is represented by the KeyValueStore class. To facilitate easy access to the default key-value store, Crawlee provides the functions `KeyValueStore.getValue()` and `KeyValueStore.setValue()`.

Reviewer: Identifiers are wrong. Probably just blindly copy-pasted from JS...

The data is stored in the directory specified by the `CRAWLEE_STORAGE_DIR` environment variable as follows:
```text
{CRAWLEE_STORAGE_DIR}/key_value_stores/{STORE_ID}/{KEY}.{EXT}
```
- `{CRAWLEE_STORAGE_DIR}`: The root directory for all storage data specified by the environment variable.
- `{STORE_ID}`: The identifier for the key-value store, either "default" or as specified by `CRAWLEE_DEFAULT_KEY_VALUE_STORE_ID`.
- `{KEY}`: The unique key for the record.
- `{EXT}`: The file extension corresponding to the MIME type of the content.

The following code demonstrates basic operations of key-value stores:

<Tabs groupId="keyvaluestore">
    <TabItem value="kvstore_basic_example" label="Basic usage" default>
        <CodeBlock className="language-python">
            {KvStoreBasicExample}
        </CodeBlock>
    </TabItem>

> </Tabs>

Reviewer: Why tabs if you have there only one item? That does not make sense. See how this is done in the [Request storage guide](https://crawlee.dev/python/docs/guides/request-storage).

Reviewer: I mean, could you please add other tabs as we have for the [Request storage guide](https://crawlee.dev/python/docs/guides/request-storage)? Users should find out here how to use the result storages with crawlers.

- Basic usage
- Usage with Crawler
- Explicit usage with Crawler

To see a real-world example of how to get the input from the key-value store, see the [Screenshots](https://crawlee.dev/python/docs/examples/capture-screenshots-using-playwright) example.

## Dataset

Datasets are utilized for storing structured data, where each object contains the same attributes, like products from an online store or listings for real estate. You can visualize a dataset as a table, with each object represented as a row and its attributes as columns. Datasets function as append-only storage, allowing for the addition of new records but preventing modifications or deletions of existing ones.

Every Crawlee project run is linked to a default dataset, which is generally used to store the results specific to that crawler execution. Utilizing this dataset is optional.

> In Crawlee, datasets are represented by the Dataset class. To facilitate writing to the default dataset, Crawlee provides the `Dataset.pushData()` function.

Reviewer: Identifiers are wrong. Probably just blindly copy-pasted from JS...

The data is stored in the directory specified by the `CRAWLEE_STORAGE_DIR` environment variable as follows:

```text
{CRAWLEE_STORAGE_DIR}/datasets/{DATASET_ID}/{INDEX}.json
```
- `{CRAWLEE_STORAGE_DIR}`: The root directory for all storage data specified by the environment variable.
- `{DATASET_ID}`: Specifies the dataset, either "default" or a custom dataset ID.
- `{INDEX}`: Represents the zero-based index of the record within the dataset.

The following code demonstrates basic operations of the dataset:

<Tabs groupId="dataset">
    <TabItem value="dataset_basic_example" label="Basic usage" default>
        <CodeBlock className="language-python">
            {DatasetBasicExample}
        </CodeBlock>
    </TabItem>

> </Tabs>

Reviewer: Why tabs if you have there only one item? That does not make sense. See how this is done in the [Request storage guide](https://crawlee.dev/python/docs/guides/request-storage).

Reviewer: Same as for KVS.

## Cleaning up the storages

> Default storages are cleared before the crawler begins, unless specified otherwise. This clearing occurs as soon as we attempt to access any storage (e.g., through `Dataset.open()`) or when using a default storage with one of the helper methods (such as `Dataset.pushData()`, which internally calls `Dataset.open()`). If we do not explicitly interact with storages in our code, the clearing will take place when the crawler's run method is executed. If we need to clear the storages earlier, we can explicitly use the `purgeDefaultStorages()` helper:

Reviewer: Identifiers are wrong. Probably just blindly copy-pasted from JS...

<Tabs groupId="cleaningUpStorage">
    <TabItem value="rs_purge_explicitly_example" label="Basic usage" default>
        <CodeBlock className="language-python">
            {RsPurgeExplicitlyExample}
        </CodeBlock>
    </TabItem>

> </Tabs>

Reviewer: Why tabs if you have there only one item? That does not make sense. See how this is done in the [Request storage guide](https://crawlee.dev/python/docs/guides/request-storage).

> Invoking this function will clear the default results storage directories, with the exception of the `INPUT` key in the default key-value store directory. This serves as a shortcut to execute the optional `purge` method from the `StorageClient` interface; in other words, it calls the `purge` method of the underlying storage implementation in use. Additionally, this method ensures that the storage is purged only once for a specific execution context, making it safe to call multiple times.

Reviewer: Missing API docs link (all classes should be linked to the API docs).
